---
eip: <to be assigned>
title: <The EIP title is a few words, not a complete sentence>
description: <Description is one full (short) sentence>
author: <a comma separated list of the author's or authors' name + GitHub username (in parenthesis), or name and email (in angle brackets).  Example, FirstName LastName (@GitHubUsername), FirstName LastName <foo@bar.com>, FirstName (@GitHubUsername) and GitHubUsername (@GitHubUsername)>
discussions-to: <URL>
status: Draft
type: <Standards Track, Meta, or Informational>
category (*only required for Standards Track): <Core, Networking, Interface, or ERC>
created: <date created on, in ISO 8601 (yyyy-mm-dd) format>
requires (*optional): <EIP number(s)>
---

This is the suggested template for new EIPs.

Note that an EIP number will be assigned by an editor. When opening a pull request to submit your EIP, please use an abbreviated title in the filename, `eip-draft_title_abbrev.md`.

The title should be 44 characters or less. It should not repeat the EIP number in title, irrespective of the category.

## Abstract
This standard is an extension of EIP-721 and EIP-4907.
It proposes to add a beneficiary role on top of the owner and user roles.
The beneficiary is granted the financial return of any activity related to the underlying NFT.
This EIP is necessary to facilitate NFT lending, NFT mortgages, and NFT buy-now-pay-later (BNPL).

## Motivation
EIP-4907 separates the role of the user and owner of the NFT, which opens the door for the NFT rental market.
The NFT owner can rent it out to a user in return for cash flow.
The cash flow of the NFT can then be leveraged to build other financial services, like paying for the interest of taking a loan against an NFT or paying for the interest of an NFT mortgage.
In both NFT lending and NFT mortgage, the lender should hold custody of the NFT, whereas the borrower should be granted any utility value of the NFT and the right to rent the NFT out to another user.
However, the current EIP standard cannot differentiate between the lender (owner) and the borrower (beneficiary) role of the NFT, and our proposal solves this ambiguity.

## Specification
The key words “MUST”, “MUST NOT”, “REQUIRED”, “SHALL”, “SHALL NOT”, “SHOULD”, “SHOULD NOT”, “RECOMMENDED”, “MAY”, and “OPTIONAL” in this document are to be interpreted as described in RFC 2119.

The technical specification should describe the syntax and semantics of any new feature. The specification should be detailed enough to allow competing, interoperable implementations for any of the current Ethereum platforms (go-ethereum, parity, cpp-ethereum, ethereumj, ethereumjs, and [others](https://github.com/ethereum/wiki/wiki/Clients)).

## Rationale
This standard facilitates the composability of NFT rental and three services, NFT lending, NFT mortgage, and NFT BNPL, as detailed below.

### NFT Lending
In NFT lending, the original NFT holder (borrower) transfers the ownership, but not the beneficiary right, of the NFT to a lending protocol (lender), takes out a loan against the NFT, and promises to repay the loan plus interest within a given time window.
The borrower (beneficiary) rents the NFT to a third party in return for payment, which is used to cover the loan's interest.
If the borrower fails to repay the loan or the interest, the lender can claim the beneficiary right of the NFT and refuse to return the ownership of the NFT.

### NFT Mortgage
In NFT mortgage, the buyer (borrower) takes a loan from the lender to purchase an NFT, and then uses the NFT itself as the collateral by transferring the ownership but not the beneficiary right to the NFT to the lender.
Then the borrower can enjoy the utility value of the NFT or rent it out and use the income to cover the interest.
Upon full loan and interest payment, the lender will return the ownership to the borrower.
Upon failure to repay the loan or interest, the lender can claim the beneficiary's right and refuse to return the ownership.
With the owner’s approval, the beneficiary can sell the NFT to another buyer and use the income to repay the loan, after which the ownership and beneficiary rights are transferred to the buyer.

### NFT BNPL
In NFT BNPL, the buyer pays the seller an initial deposit in return for the beneficiary right of the NFT, promising to fulfill the remaining repayment plus interest.
The buyer can then enjoy the utility value or rent the NFT for income.
Upon full payment, the seller will transfer the ownership to the buyer.
Upon failure to pay for the remaining amount or interest, the seller can reclaim the beneficiary right and refuse to transfer the ownership.
With the seller’s approval, the beneficiary can sell the NFT to a second buyer and use the income to repay the loan, after which the ownership and beneficiary rights are transferred to the second buyer.

## Backwards Compatibility
This EIP is fully compatible with EIP-721 and EIP-4907 and should be compatible with existing application-level logic like NFT exchanges (OpenSea, etc.) and NFT rental marketplaces.

## Test Cases
Test cases for an implementation are mandatory for EIPs that are affecting consensus changes.  If the test suite is too large to reasonably be included inline, then consider adding it as one or more files in `../assets/eip-####/`.

## Reference Implementation
An optional section that contains a reference/example implementation that people can use to assist in understanding or implementing this specification.  If the implementation is too large to reasonably be included inline, then consider adding it as one or more files in `../assets/eip-####/`.

## Security Considerations
This EIP completely protects the right of NFT owners and users.

## Copyright
Copyright and related rights waived via [CC0](../LICENSE.md).
